## Notes

* Files clinvar_public_current.xsd, variation_archive_current.xsd are the current xsds that ClinVar uses for public xmls i.e. ClinVarFullRelease_.xml, ClinVarVariationRelease_.xml where as clinvar_public_proposed.xsd, variation_archive_proposed.xsd are proposed xsds for public xmls to support Classifications of somatic variants in ClinVar.
* File clinvar_public_diff.html provides diff between clinvar_public_current.xsd and clinvar_public_proposed.xsd. Similarly variation_archive_diff.html provides diff between variation_archive_current.xsd and variation_archive_proposed.xsd. xsd_change_highlights.xlsx provides the list of key changes. 
* In the RCV XML, we have been aggregating observation data under ReferenceClinVarAssertion/ObservedIn. Observation data includes data types such as number of individuals with the variant and number of families with the variant. In the new format, we will continue to aggregate the observation data but only for SCVs with a germline classification.
    * Note: all of the observation data are also available as part of each submitted record (SCV) for all classification types, in the ClinVarAssertion element in the XML.
    * We anticipate that we will remove the aggregated observation data in the future, and retain observations only in the section of the XML for submitted records. If you use the aggregate observations, please write to us at clinvar@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov and let us know how you use it and how you would be impacted if we remove it.
